[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Dr. Joe Dispenza
has been a favorite of Gaiam
viewers around the world
for years because he brings a
clarity to the subject of how
we create our physical reality.
Some people don't like to
think that their condition is
a product of their own
beliefs and expectations,
but Dr. Joe has spent
years detailing the how for
and the why.
In his newest book,
You Are The Placebo,
he's outdone himself in taking
this science mainstream.
Yet there's nothing mainstream
about it yet, in terms
of the fact that--
I mean, some people
even call it "faith healing."
But you're bringing
"faith healing,"
if that's what they
want to call it,
to the highest possible
scientific viewpoint.
>>JOE DISPENZA:
Well, if you think
about the definition
of faith, faith
is believing in thought
more than anything else.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: So in a
sense, if we demystify it,
I think we're in alignment.
>>REGINA: I think so.
And for those of you who aren't
already familiar with you--
we have new subscribers
all the time--
you had a little bit
of-- not a little.
You had a huge
personal experience
that kind of set
you on this path.
We'll just take a
minute for that,
because I really would
like to suggest that people
go to the archives if they
want to hear the whole story,
because I've interviewed
you a few times before.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
Yeah.
I think in order for us to wake
up, we need a wake up call.
And I got the call in 1986.
I was run over by a truck in
a triathlon in Palm Springs
and broke six
vertebrae in my spine.
And the prognosis
was pretty poor.
And I had to make
a decision if I
was going to take the
conventional approach
and go with a surgery or see if
I could make the change myself.
And I chose the latter,
and it started me
on this whole journey of
making internal changes
and measuring the
effects in our bodies.
>>REGINA: And you
had to really put
your body where your beliefs
were, because they informed you
that if you didn't
have the operation,
you were likely going to be,
essentially, unable to walk,
and many other things.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
Yes.
I was facing some pretty
difficult moments there.
I was diagnosed with
cord impingement.
I had bone fragments
on my spinal cord.
And the arch that the
spinal cord passed through
broke like a pretzel.
So I was facing paralysis-- a
lot of neurological deficits.
And if I was going
to stand up, they
were concerned that it was
going to make it worse.
So I chose to not
have the surgery
because I believe that there's
a power within us that gives us
life that we could
basically connect with.
>>REGINA: That's bold.
Most people would
not have the courage.
But you were young man, and you
probably-- like all young men,
you're immortal.
Of course you can kick
it, whatever it is.
>>DISPENZA: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: I mean, that's
the wonderful thing
about, you know,
the spirit of youth.
But that had to have
been a scary decision.
>>DISPENZA: Well, I think
when you're facing a crisis
or trauma, it's
so amazing how we
focus on what we don't
want to have happen
instead of what we do
want to have happen.
And so I wasn't going anywhere.
I wasn't doing anything.
I was laying face down.
And I thought, well--
>>REGINA: Yeah, for months.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
If this intelligence is real
and it's giving me life,
I'm going to make
contact with it.
I'm going to give it a plan.
>>REGINA: You had
time to practice.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
I wasn't doing anything.
And then I thought,
I'm not going
to let any thought
slip by my awareness
that I didn't want
to experience.
So sounds easy,
but those six weeks
were really my dark
night of the soul,
because I couldn't get my mind
to do what I wanted it to do.
And if I got frustrated
or angry, it got worse.
So I started to figured it
out after a couple weeks,
and then things started
to change for me.
And soon as I started seeing
physical changes in my body,
I started correlating what
I was doing with my mind,
and I paid attention
to what I did
and I did it with
more enthusiasm.
And then I started
healing pretty quickly.
And I just made a
deal with myself
that if I was ever
able to walk again,
I'd spend the rest
of my life studying
the mind-body connection
and mind over matter.
For the most part, that's
what I've been doing.
>>REGINA: And you blew the
minds of all the people
that were involved
in the medical staff.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
It was kind of a
defining moment.
And they were open
to the concept.
But you know, I mean,
it's not for everybody.
I mean, it's just not-- that
choice is not for everybody.
>>REGINA: No.
No.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And we're going
to get into that and more,
because we're going to have two
separate conversations on how
we are subject to our own
preconditioned programs
that happen, I
would say, probably
even before this lifetime, and
certainly into this lifetime
and then beyond, and also what
happens to us collectively.
In a second show, we're going
to talk about that, but--
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
>>REGINA: --there's
a quote in the book
I want to start out with.
>>DISPENZA: OK.
>>REGINA: I really liked it.
It says, "Our
bodies and emotions
are one, aligned to a
destiny predetermined
by our unconscious programs."
And in that, you're talking
about the fact everything
we're expressing in
life is essentially
out of an unconscious program--
95% percent of the greater
mind.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
>>REGINA: And we're trying to
use 5% of the conscious mind
to reprogram that part by
doing our little affirmations
and such, which you're
known for on What The Bleep.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
>>REGINA: But there's
a lot to that.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
I mean, thoughts are the
language of the brain,
and feelings are the
language of the body.
And how you think and how you
feel creates a state of being.
So if you're thinking certain
thoughts that make you happy,
those thoughts will produce
certain chemicals in your body
for you to begin to feel exactly
the way you were just thinking.
The moment you feel
the way you think,
you begin to think
the way you feel.
The redundancy of that cycle,
Regina, over time, conditions
the body to become the mind.
And once the body becomes the
mind, that's called a habit.
Now, this is science.
95% of who we are by the
time we're 35 years old
is a set of memorized behaviors,
emotional reactions, beliefs,
perceptions, and
attitudes that--
>>REGINA: 95% and we
think we have free will.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
Functionally, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
So they function like a
subconscious computer program.
So the great example
you can use is you--
you'd have to be
over 35 for this,
but you may not be able to
consciously remember a phone
number, but you can pick up
the phone, look at the numbers,
and your fingers
dial the number.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: You've
practiced it so many times
that your body knows
better than your brain.
So when it comes time
to change and people
are using 5% of
their conscious mind
to go against 95% of what they
programed subconsciously--
you can think
positively all you want,
but if you've been feeling
negatively for the last 35
years, that's mind and
body in opposition.
You could create
your dream board
and have all your beautiful
pictures of your future,
but if you feel unworthy, that's
mind and body in opposition.
You have to recondition
the body to a new mind.
And I think that
the process that
makes this so unique
as human beings
is the fact that we
can think about what
we're thinking about.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>DISPENZA: We can
notice how we're acting.
And we can pay
attention to how we're
feeling, which means we could
modify our states of being
to do a better job in life.
And that level of
meta-cognition or mindfulness,
because of the size
of the frontal lobe,
allows us to begin to
observe who we're being
so we can do a
better job in life.
>>REGINA: And you
were just talking
about the feelings
of unworthiness,
which people relate to.
I mean, everyone relates to,
in some aspect of their life,
feeling unworthy.
It's part of the
human condition.
But when you stop
and think about it
and then remember what it
feels like-- because I want
to get into this
emotion feeling part--
there's a cascade
of chemicals that
starts rolling through
not just the mind,
but through the entire body
with feelings of unworthiness.
Let's talk about the program,
the chemical cascade,
the effect of the emotions into
even the quantum field, then.
>>DISPENZA: OK.
Let's do it.
>>REGINA: OK.
That's a big, juicy question.
It gives you time to chat.
>>DISPENZA: Well,
think about this.
Feelings and emotions
are the end product
of past experiences.
And you can remember
experiences better
because you can
remember how you feel.
Most people can tell you
exactly where they were on 9/11.
They can tell you who they were
with, the time of day it was.
And we could say everything that
they were seeing and hearing
changed their internal
chemical state.
The moment they felt
differently inside of them,
they paid attention to what
caused it outside of them.
And that event, in and of
itself, is called a memory.
So if feelings and
emotions are the end
product of past
experiences, and you've
had some experience
in your past that
created the emotions
of unworthiness,
and those emotions then have
become part of your identity
and you can't think greater than
how you feel, then for the most
part, you're
thinking in the past
because emotions are
a record of the past.
So then what happens is we
pre-determine the destiny
because our thoughts and our
behaviors and our emotions
are connected to the past.
So now, neurotransmitters
are what
allow us to produce
different levels of mind.
So if you're thinking
an unworthy thought,
you'll turn a set of circuits
on in your brain that
fire in a very specific
sequence, pattern,
and combination that
produces a level of mind.
Mind is the brain in action.
Once you get the brain
firing in tandem,
you get an internal
representation.
We can call that an intention
or a hologram or whatever.
The moment you put your
attention behind that picture
in your mind, the
brain begins to make
a second set of chemicals
called neuropeptides.
Now, neuropeptides are
made in the chemical brain
or the limbic brain.
And those chemical
neuropeptides then
begin to signal different
hormonal centers
and begin to signal
different genes.
Now, genes are responsible
for making both the structure
and function of your body.
Muscle cells make
muscle proteins
called actin and myosin, right.
Stomach cells make stomach
proteins called enzymes.
So the body's a protein
producing machine.
So if you're experiencing
the same events
or you're recreating
the same emotions,
you're signaling the exact same
genes in the exact same way.
And you're going to begin
to wear that gene out.
So what happens when we age?
What happens to our skin?
What happens to our hair?
What happens to our bones?
What happens to our enzymes?
What happens to
our immune system?
Those are all proteins.
We start making
cheaper proteins.
So the idea then, that
when you change the way
you think-- the idea when you
demonstrate a new behavior,
the idea that you begin
to experience new events
in your life-- begins to
signal new genes in new ways.
And this is science, now.
These epigenetic
changes begin to occur,
creating behavior dependant
genes-- creating experience
dependent genes that are passed
on to the next generation.
So we are not defined by
our genes, by any means.
Genes are a parts
list of potentials.
And it's up to us
to begin to instruct
the right genes
in the right ways.
And we become our own
biochemical engineers
by how we think and how we feel.
>>REGINA: You know what?
There's a page that
expresses that in that book
we'll get to in a little bit.
I think it wrote down here--
page 86-- that it's so
elegantly stated, but
you just said it again--
you just said it yourself,
so maybe we don't need to.
So let's talk about, then,
the field of potential.
You're talking about that--
that hard-wired programming
and all of these neurochemical
responses, and the fact
that these are playing out
on a moment by moment basis
within the body and affecting
our genetic structure.
Inner penetrating all of that
is simply a field of potential,
though.
>>DISPENZA: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: And let's now start
doing the crossover between--
>>DISPENZA: OK.
>>REGINA: Is it appropriate
to talk about that yet?
>>DISPENZA: Well, we can work
our way there, but let's--
>>REGINA: Let's
work our way there.
>>DISPENZA: OK.
We'll, let's talk
about the placebo,
and then we'll work
our way to that.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
>>DISPENZA: I mean,
think about this.
How can you give someone a
sugar pill, a saline injection,
or perform some false
surgery or fake procedure
and a certain percentage
of those people accept,
believe, and
surrender to the idea
that they're getting some
real treatment or real drug,
and they begin to program
their autonomic nervous system
to make the exact
pharmacy of chemicals
that they think they're
taking in the drug
or in the treatment?
So then the question is,
do you need the sugar pill
or the saline injection?
Because what those
people are doing is
they're beginning to select a
new potential in the quantum
field.
And there's infinite potentials
in the quantum field.
So they're going on,
living their normal life,
thinking and feeling
the same way.
And all of a sudden, a doctor
comes along who's enthusiastic,
gives a modified
name for a new drug,
and all it is is a sugar pill.
And they say, if you
take this pill every day,
the research shows it does
these type of changes.
In a certain percentage
of those people,
once they see that
pill, they'll associate
that external substance with
the idea of getting well.
They're selecting the
potential in the quantum field.
>>REGINA: Right.
Right.
>>DISPENZA: Now, here's the key.
It's not enough to
just have that thought.
The moment they being
to marry that thought
with an elevated emotion like--
>>REGINA: Like yes,
this is going to do it.
>>DISPENZA: Like
inspiration, like excitement,
like gratitude--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DISPENZA: It's
the clear intention
and the elevated
emotion that begins
to program the biology of their
body into a new state of being.
In other words, their brain
and body in that moment
are no longer
living in the past.
Why?
Because the brain,
neurologically,
is a record of the past.
It's an artifact.
And emotions, then, are a record
of past experiences-- feedback,
right.
So most people are thinking
and feeling in the past.
In that moment,
they're no longer
being defined by a
memory of the past.
They're being defined by--
>>REGINA: They've replaced
it with a new feeling.
>>DISPENZA: --a vision.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: --a new
vision of the future.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: Now, the
moment they marry
that clear intention with an
elevated emotion, the body,
as the unconscious mind, is
no longer living in the past.
The body's believing it's
in that future experience
in the present moment.
And they're signaling
new genes in new ways.
Now, think about
placebo studies.
The next day, the person's going
to take the antidepressant--
the next day.
And they're going to believe
that that antidepressant is
the thing that's going
to make them better.
And they're going to select that
same potential in the quantum
field, and they're going
to emotionally embrace it.
And all the sudden,
they're going
to begin to make their
own natural pharmacy
of antidepressants.
That's how powerful we
are by thought alone.
So many studies on,
just for example,
on antidepressants and placebos.
It's the three
out of four people
that take a placebo for an
antidepressant get better.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DISPENZA: Because they're
looking forward to a future
and they're expecting
the outcome.
So then as people
begin to learn how
to do that exact thing, but
instead of putting their faith
and belief in some
external substance,
can you eliminate that
known external substance
and begin to select a
potential in the quantum field
and emotionally
embrace how it would
feel before it occurs
so that your body,
as the unconscious mind, begins
to live in that future reality
and you begin to program
your autonomic nervous system
into a new state of being?
And we have all the innate
mechanisms within us
to do that, and we can believe
in ourselves and the potential.
And the answer to that
question is absolutely yes.
>>REGINA: Absolutely yes.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Except we're
in a mechanistic world
where we're being
bombarded with subconscious
programs via media, et
cetera, that we need pills.
So we have to have this
placebo or whatever
it is-- this medium, somehow.
>>DISPENZA: Right.
>>REGINA: We can't seem
to go direct just yet.
Some people can.
You can, but--
>>DISPENZA: Well,
that's what we're
teaching in our workshops.
>>REGINA: Yeah, to go direct.
>>DISPENZA: We're
saying, look, we
know the mechanisms of
how the placebo works.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: Once you
understand the science of how
the placebo works,
can you teach it?
And can you eliminate
that external substance
and have a person
believe in themselves
and in the potential
of the quantum field?
And once people understand
how to do it and regulate
their internal states, their
level of suggestibility
goes up.
Here's an example.
When you go to the doctor
and the doctor says to you,
you have this condition and you
react emotionally with fear,
do you know that you will only
accept, believe, and surrender
to the thoughts equal
to that emotional state?
You're only suggestible to the
thoughts equal to the fear.
So then you begin to program
your autonomic nervous system
into a very specific destiny.
So then if you can change
a person's emotional state,
they will accept,
believe, and surrender
to the thoughts equal
to that emotional state.
So that's where the change
and challenge comes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: Because I mean,
if you think about this,
we're programed-- and one
of the things that I learned
in writing this book is how
programed we really are--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: And then
how we have to become
unprogrammed or
deprogrammed to be
able to see how
this process works.
So if you can change
your state of being
to a state of gratitude or
into a state of inspiration,
you'll accept,
believe, and surrender
to the thoughts equal
to that emotional state,
and you'll begin to program
your autonomic nervous system
and begin to make the new
pharmacy of chemicals that
begins to signal the
genes in a different way.
>>REGINA: And what's
interesting is
when I alluded to--
I think it was what's
on page 86-- is that
when you do this-- so
say this is a condition.
You've just been given
the news that you
have some kind of
degenerative condition
that both your father
and grandfather had.
And so that belief-- and we
know through epigenetics--
Bruce Lipton's work
Biology of Belief
and so forth-- that these
conditions aren't necessarily
genetic, but they are
programmed in through
this collective belief system
that's been passed down.
But what you're saying is
that in that moment where
we can elevate to that higher
state of being in our emotions,
we can flip a switch
right then and there
and break that
programming and actually
have a new programming passed
on to future generations
from that moment.
>>DISPENZA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: That's
what's so beautiful.
>>DISPENZA: Well,
let's talk about that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DISPENZA: Because it's
a very important thing
that when we have
experiences in our life
that change our emotional
state-- and we all have-- what
happens is we start to
layer those emotions
on top of each other.
And those emotions then
become our identity.
Because for the most part,
if we're feeling the same way
every single day, it
becomes familiar to us.
And if 95% of who we are by
the time we're 35 years old
is a set of programs,
then it's entirely
possible guilt is-- you look
for the guilt every morning when
you wake up.
You look for the
unworthiness every morning
so you can feel the
familiar feeling called you.
And if you're judging
yourself and judging others
and it's in the 95% where
your unconscious to it,
you're doing that all
the time and you're not
even aware of it.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>DISPENZA: So it's
those mechanisms, then,
that begin to cause
people to model
the behaviors of their parents.
They don't know
they're doing that,
but they're living with
the same caregivers,
they're modeling
their behaviors.
Those particular
behaviors then begin
to signal the same genes
that their parent's signaled,
and now they're headed to a
particular genetic destiny.
So the challenge
comes, then-- is
crossing that river of change.
Here's the old self,
and here's the new self.
And the model that we
use is very simple.
Your personality creates
your personal reality.
That's it.
And your personality is made up
of how you think, how you act,
and how you feel.
So the present personality
who's listening to this show
has created the present personal
reality called their life.
If they want to create
a new personal reality,
then we have to start thinking
about what we've been thinking
about and change it--
start paying attention
to how we've been
acting and behaving
and modify that-- begin to
look at the emotions that
keep us anchored to
the past, and decide
if those emotions
belong in our future.
So in our research, we found
out that most people try
to create a new personal
reality as the same personality,
and it doesn't work.
So if you keep thinking the
same way, acting the same way,
making the same choices,
creating the same experiences,
producing the same
emotions, then your biology
will reflect that.
So the moment you
say, I no longer want
to be a victim-- I'm not
going to blame, complain, make
excuses, feel sorry for myself.
I'm going to stop today-- the
moment you say that, you're
stepping into that
river of change.
And the way you'll
know right away
is you'll feel uncomfortable.
It will feel unfamiliar.
It'll be unpredictable,
and it will be the unknown.
Now most people, the moment they
feel that unfamiliar feeling
and they can't
predict their guilt
or they can't predict that
feeling that they've defined
as themselves, they go back
and make the same choices that
lead to the same
behaviors that create
the same experiences that
produce the same emotions.
And they say oh,
this feels right.
No, that feels familiar.
Moving from the old
self to the new self
and crossing that river,
that void, that unknown,
is the biological, the
neurological, the chemical,
and even the genetic
death of the old self.
And once we understand that
that's what's occurring
and that the best way
to predict your future
is to create it right
in that unknown--
and if you and I can
become comfortable
in that unknown-- that's where
the miraculous-- that's where
the magic happens.
So getting people beyond
their emotional states that
keep them anchored to the
past is always the challenge.
Because if they're
thinking the same way
and it's creating
the same emotions,
they're keeping the
same genes turned on
and the other genes turned off.
And now they're headed
for their genetic destiny.
>>REGINA: And this is something
when we're talking about it,
everyone hears this and says,
yeah, that makes so much sense.
Of course, we don't
know how to do it.
I mean, doing it is
totally separate.
>>DISPENZA: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: But also, you're
talking about-- now,
this is hard science.
This is showing up on brain
maps and brain scans-- MRIs
and so forth.
And you and Jeffrey Fannin have
been working together, as well,
and doing, really, some amazing
work the last couple of years.
And so at this point,
I think it might
be good to get into a couple
of real life case studies,
for example, of people
that were able to cross
that river of change, and
including in the negative.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
>>REGINA: What was the name of
the man who had-- Oh, Sam Lock.
I have it right here.
Lund.
>>DISPENZA: Sam Lund.
>>REGINA: Sam Lund.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Let's
talk about Sam Lund
for a moment, because
this really demonstrates
how severely we're
impacted by this.
And then I want to start going
into the positive examples.
>>DISPENZA: Well, I wanted to
write this book differently
because I wanted to tell
stories of actual people
that have been influenced
in the positive way
and the negative way
by thought alone.
And so Sam Lund was a
retired shoe salesman living
in the South.
And he was diagnosed
with esophageal cancer.
And in those days, esophageal
cancer was a death sentence.
And so he went to his
doctor and the doctor
did the procedure to remove
most of the esophageal cancer.
And then he went through a
series of scans and tests,
and one of the scans showed
that the esophageal cancer had
metastasized--
spread to his liver--
and that he had a positive scan.
And so once it reaches
the liver, in those days,
it pretty much is-- there's
nothing that they could do.
So they said to him,
look, there's not
a lot we can do at this point.
You don't have
much time to live.
What can we do to help you?
And he said, look,
I just want to-- it
was October-- I just want to
make it through Christmas.
And then after Christmas
when I'm with my family,
I'll be ready to die.
And so they did all the
necessary things to help him.
One week after
Christmas-- actually,
it was New Year's Day-- he dies.
>>REGINA: Now, did
he-- symptomatically,
did he become sicker and sicker
during this period of time?
>>DISPENZA: No, no, no.
No, actually, he was healthy.
>>REGINA: He was healthy all
the way up through Christmas?
>>DISPENZA: All the
way through Christmas,
he was perfectly healthy.
All his vital signs and
everything-- his tests--
perfect.
>>REGINA: OK.
Yeah.
>>DISPENZA: The problem is
that when they did the autopsy
on Sam's body--
>>REGINA: So he was healthy.
He enjoyed his family.
He died right after Christmas.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
Yeah.
And so right after
Christmas, he dies.
And they do an
autopsy on his body
and they find out that it was
a false positive on the liver
scan-- that he had a very small,
tiny little nodule, but not
enough to kill him-- that
he died by thought alone.
And so when people begin to
wrap their mind around this--
to realize how powerful we can
program ourselves if we accept,
believe, and surrender
to certain thoughts
without any analysis,
we're beginning
to program our bodies
equal to our mind.
So that's a great example.
>>REGINA: It is.
What actually did he die of?
>>DISPENZA: No one knows.
>>REGINA: He just woke--
he didn't wake up.
>>DISPENZA: He died
by thought alone.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: So he stopped
his vital signs.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: Somehow, he stopped
his vital signs by his belief.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
So I like to tell
those kind of stories.
And then there's a
thing called the nocebo.
>>REGINA: That's what I
was just going to ask.
Yeah.
>>DISPENZA: And the nocebo
is a kind of a funny thing.
Because a certain
percentage of people,
when you give them a placebo and
you tell them the side effects
or they read about
the side effects,
they get all the side
effects of the placebo
without even taking
the actual drug.
So if you think about it,
people that take certain drugs
and they all of a sudden get
fatigue or they get headaches
or they get nausea, it's
because they're actually
open to the thoughts that
are equal to those states.
And so I talk
about a young kid--
a graduate student who was
in a double blind placebo
study for depression.
He's battled
depression in the past.
And he gets in an argument
with his girlfriend.
And out of frustration,
he opens the bottle
and takes all 27 pills.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DISPENZA: Runs out
of his apartment,
writhing, convulsing,
falls on the ground crying.
And his heart rate's 80/40.
His respiratory
rate is super high.
His pulse is very high.
They bring him to the hospital.
>>REGINA: He appears
to be tanking.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah,
he's going down.
And anyway, they
finally find the drug
that he had been taking.
They call the doctor
from the placebo study.
He comes in and he says,
you're taking the placebo.
And within seconds--
>>REGINA: I love this story
>>DISPENZA: --his body
returns back to normalcy,
which is pretty significant.
That tells us how
powerful we really are.
>>REGINA: It really is.
>>DISPENZA: So I
wanted to start off
the book, story after
story, in that way,
so that people begin to really
open their mind up to the idea
that their thoughts do
matter and that we do program
ourselves on a daily basis,
based on how we think and feel.
>>REGINA: As I was
preparing for this,
I had to go to the
dentist last week.
And I had the book with me.
And he said, oh, what
are you reading there?
I said, oh, I'm preparing.
I'm going to be interviewing
Dr. Joe next week.
And said well, tell
me about the book.
And I told him
just a little bit.
And he said, well, I've
got a story for you.
When he was in his
medical training
and he was a resident
at-- I believe
it was Harbor-- I don't know if
it's Harbor General in Southern
California-- one of the
things they had to do
was perform extractions.
And he said they
gave their clients
a choice of taking whatever
the common painkiller was
at the time or taking the
super, extra, ultra good one.
And they said, it's
not for everybody.
They do not prescribe
it to everybody.
But if they think there's
really going to be some trouble,
they would give
them-- they called it
the harborgesic
pill, which was--
he said it was a massive
jawbreaker-- sugar pill.
And he said they had
the same results,
and that people
would come in saying,
oh, God, doc, those things work.
I need more harborgesics.
>>REGINA: Let's demystify that.
First of all, you've got
to give it a great name.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, they
give it a great name.
>>REGINA: There's no coincidence
Viagra is called Viagra,
because it rhymes with Niagara.
And there's a lot of flow and--
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, well,
there's a lot of power there.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And Rogaine is grow and gain.
I mean, people
have to understand
that there is association
with the name.
Secondly, if the doctor
is enthusiastic about it,
it enhances the efficacy.
>>REGINA: Well, and they
tried to keep it from them.
It's special.
>>DISPENZA: And then if you
try to keep it from them
and you make it special and they
want it more-- the moment they
want it more, the
moment they begin
to anticipate the outcome.
And expectation is a
very important element
in the placebo.
So when they've done these
studies on analgesics like
this, one of the things one
particular physician found out
over time was that some of these
people were actually making
their own endorphins and
morphine-like chemicals up
to 200 times of what the
brain normally makes--
>>REGINA: Whoa.
>>DISPENZA: --just by
expecting an outcome
and beginning to
condition ourselves
into a new state of being.
So that's how powerful
we really are.
>>REGINA: It's amazing
if we-- and that's
the point of the
book, and that's
what your work is--
allowing ourselves
to go in a state of
saying, OK, right
here in this field
of information,
I already have the triggers
for my internal pharmacy
and it can create anything.
And that's what
they've been doing.
And people even respond once
they know it's a placebo.
And let's talk about
that for a moment.
>>DISPENZA: Well, there
was a couple great studies.
The one that was
probably the most famous
is people that had irritable
bowel syndrome, which
is a very difficult
condition to overcome.
But in this one
particular study,
they told the participants that
they were getting the placebo.
And a very significant
amount of those people
got better, even
though they knew
they were taking
their placebo, which
means the conscious mind has
a very small effect on what
we program subconsciously.
>>REGINA: OK, now this was
one of my favorite parts
of the book.
The elderly gentlemen
who went to the monastery
and had to pretend
they were young again.
Tell us about this study.
>>DISPENZA: Well,
this is a study
that was done by a Harvard
researcher named Ellen Langer.
And what she did
was she took a group
of men in their 70s
and 80s to a monastery
about two hours
north of Harvard.
And when they got
to the monastery,
they asked these men
to pretend like they
were 22 years younger.
And they asked them to immerse
themself in the environment.
Now the environment had
pictures of Marilyn Monroe, had
the Cuban Missile
Crisis on the radio.
It had pictures of magazines of
all different current events--
Mickey Mantle et cetera, et
cetera-- and the Kennedys.
And everything in
their environment
reminded them of being
22 years younger.
But they were to move
into a state of being.
They were actually
to pretend like they
were 22 years younger.
Now, before they did that, they
measured certain core values
on these men.
They measured their
finger lengths,
they measured their toe lengths,
they measured their height,
they measured their weight,
they measured their hearing,
they measured their eyesight,
they measured their range
of motion, their gait, and
their cognitive abilities.
So they had a baseline now.
Now for five days,
these guys pretended
like they were 22 years younger.
And at the end of
the study, they
remeasured all of those things.
And lo and behold,
their finger lengths
were longer, which means their
arthritis was going away.
Their toe lengths were longer.
Their eyesight improved.
Their hearing improved.
They were taller,
they had less--
they weighed less, their
range of motion improved.
And the most important
one was their cognition
improved at least 60%.
>>REGINA: Gosh, it's-- what's
shocking is in five days,
they had these
physiological changes.
>>DISPENZA: Well,
here's the cool part.
I mean, it begs the question,
who are we pretending to be?
Or better yet, who are
we pretending not to be?
And pretending is really just
changing the way you think.
They started
thinking differently.
They certainly started
acting differently.
And certainly, they started
feeling differently.
And it was the combination of
those things-- in other words,
they couldn't say, finger
length, get longer.
They couldn't say,
eyesight, get better.
>>REGINA: They had to
recreate a condition--
>>DISPENZA: They had to
move into a state of being.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DISPENZA: And when they
moved into a state of being,
they produced a
new level of mind.
Neurotransmitters then
activated neuropeptides.
Neuropeptides began to signal
new hormones-- epigenetically
began to program new genes.
They began to make new proteins.
And proteins are responsible for
both the structure and function
of your body, and every
cell makes a protein.
And all of a sudden,
all their cells
began to become reprogrammed.
And all of a sudden--
expression of protein
is the expression of life.
And their biology
changed when they
changed their state of being.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now, I think a lot of people
are saying, oh, come on.
I mean, and again, I bring up
the time period-- five days.
But we're going to watch
a little video now.
And we can talk about it
when the video's done.
It's only 2 and 1/2 minutes.
It's your little video.
It's on the production
of proteins--
this whole process
you just talked about.
And I think for us to keep
in mind that this is going on
in how many trillions
of cells in our bodies?
>>DISPENZA: Well, the estimate's
between 70 trillion and 130
trillion cells in your body.
This is happening in every
single cell of your body
all the time--
>>REGINA: Every nanosecond.
>>DISPENZA: --every nanosecond,
in many different combinations
and many different patterns.
And it's happening in every
cell except red blood cells.
And so the cell
receives the signal.
The signal then begins to
be accepted by the cell.
The chemical then
interacts with the DNA.
That chemical sends
instructions to the DNA.
The DNA is read.
And then we begin
to make proteins
to reflect what the signal
is outside of the cell.
>>REGINA: This is
the process that
is enacted when
people see things
like spontaneous remissions
and miraculous recoveries--
is really a very logical
mechanistic thing that's
happening, once it's impregnated
with the proper mindset,
intention, emotion,
expectation, et cetera.
>>DISPENZA: OK, before
we show the video,
let's go back to one
thought that I never
finished when you asked me.
So then if we're living by the
same emotion every single day,
and that's become the
common state of being,
and emotions are a
record of the past,
it means we're not
experiencing anything new.
And for the most part, our
body, as the unconscious mind,
is believing it's in the same
past experience 24 hours a day,
seven days a week,
365 days a year.
So then in order to
begin to signal the gene,
we have to make a decision
with such firm intention
that the amplitude
of that decision
carries a level of
energy that's greater
than the hardwired
programs in our brain
and the emotional
addiction in the body,
and the body literally has
to respond to the mind.
In other words, you have to
come out of your resting state.
And the inner
experience has to be
greater than any past
experience and the amplitude
of that inner experience is
enough of a intensity that
begins to knock on the genetic
door that opens the door.
In other words, if it's
not equal to that state,
then for the most part, we're
not going to program a change.
>>REGINA: It can't be passive--
oh, I'd like to feel better.
It's like, I've had it.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: I'm done.
I'm not taking this anymore.
>>DISPENZA: And good.
So we'll show this
and then I'll talk
about a case history of
someone that actually did it.
>>REGINA: Good.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, let's take a
look at this little animation.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>The events going
on in our cells
can be compared to an
orchestra playing a symphony.
There are many
different parts being
played by a wide
range of instruments.
Here we see an example of a
protein in short supply found
in the external
environment of the cell.
Proteins interact with
specific receptors
on the cell's outer
membrane to trigger
a cascade of events
leading to the expression
of specific genes and the
production of this protein.
Membranes regulate the
movement of substances
in and out of the cell through
a wide range of mechanisms.
In this case, receptors
on the surface
trigger signaling
mechanisms involving
other proteins in
the cell's cytoplasm.
In the cytoplasm, the
signaling elements
are involved in a
cascade of events.
The final components
interact with the DNA
in the nucleus at
very specific sites
to begin the expression
of the desired gene.
Gene expression is complex.
To start transcription,
several proteins
are often required to bind
regulatory elements on the DNA.
This step in the process
is where DNA is read
and a complimentary
strand of RNA is produced.
The RNA has to undergo
many changes, including
the systematic removal of
RNA sections not needed
to code for the
desired proteins.
RNA then takes the
information encoded
in the DNA out of the nucleus.
In a process called
translation, ribosomes
interact with the
messenger RNA and transfer
RNAs to create the chain
of amino acids coded
for on the DNA.
This amino acid chain undergoes
changes in configuration,
including specific folding.
Each protein takes on a 3D shape
required for a functional end
product.
As the new protein
leaves the cell
and takes on its
role in the body,
the cycles of cell function
and gene expression carry on.
The amazing symphony of
cellular interactions
continues and the music,
which is life, plays on.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>REGINA: And then
we have to remember
that what we're seeing
there, which is matter,
is what, less than a
hundredth of a percent?
In other words, 99.9999% of
every single-- the composition
of every atom in
the body is space.
>>DISPENZA: It's energy
and space-- information.
>>REGINA: Energy and space.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Information and space.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about-- go ahead and tell
us what you were going to,
but the whole matrix of how
the information can
instantaneously then change
this.
>>DISPENZA: Sure.
>>REGINA: And the example
you were going to tell us.
>>DISPENZA: Well,
the receptor sites
on the outside of our
cell-- this is science--
are 100 times more sensitive
to electromagnetism
and frequency then
they are to chemistry.
Chemistry's the downward
causation of electromagnetism.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>DISPENZA: So when you
are moved by something
and the hair on the back
of your neck stands up,
that's when the cell's
getting new electromagnetic
information.
That's when the body is
responding to the mind.
So in a lot of the
studies that we
did when we were looking
at all the people
that healed themselves of all
these different conditions
that we observe, one of the
things that was consistent
over and over again
is that the person
reached such a
level of wholeness--
such a level of self
satisfaction, such
a level of
completion-- that they
could care less whether they
had the disease any longer.
And that's the
moment it went away.
So it's funny because
we wait for our healing
in order to give thanks.
We wait for our relationship
in order to feel love.
We wait for our
wealth to show up
in order to feel
abundance or freedom.
We wait for our
success to be in power.
We wait for the mystical
moment to feel awe.
That's the old model of
reality-- of cause and effect.
The quantum model
of reality, really,
is about causing an effect.
That means that you
have to feel wholeness
before the healing occurs.
You have to feel love before
the relationship shows up.
You have to feel empowered
before the success is present.
You have to be in awe of life
before the mystical moment
occurs.
And of course, you have
to feel free and abundant
in order for your
wealth to appear.
So that's kind of the
new model of reality,
because that's when
we're conditioning
the body to a new mind.
So I wanted to tell you a
story because it just happened.
I was in Europe just
a little ways back,
and I was in Barcelona.
And I was completing a
portion of my lecture,
and I was walking off the stage.
And this woman
handed me an envelope
as I was walking off the stage.
And I walked off the stage.
On the break, I went
into the green room
and I read this letter.
And the letter was
so moving, Regina,
that I had to ask this
woman to come on the stage
and tell the story.
And it's not in
the placebo book,
but here's a great
example of how
someone turned
their life around.
This woman is a psychotherapist.
She's a professional.
She's a successful woman.
She has children.
A couple years ago, she's
in the shower getting
ready on a Sunday morning,
and her children are playing.
And her husband says
goodbye to his children,
opens the bathroom door
while she's in the shower
and yells goodbye, goes to the
tallest building in Amsterdam
and jumps off the top of the
building and commits suicide.
Now, the amplitude
of the experience,
emotionally-- the emotional
quotient from that even created
shock, created a lot of
anger, a lot of resentment,
a lot of victimization, a lot
of pain, and a lot of suffering.
That's the side effect
of the experience.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>DISPENZA: Now, what
most people don't know
is that when you think
about a past experience that
has a high emotional quotient,
you produce the same chemistry
in your brain and body as
if the event was happening.
So her body, as the
unconscious mind,
didn't know the difference
between the actual event that
occurred and the memories
that she was recreating.
So her body was we
re-experiencing the same event
50 to 100 times in one day.
And it's that redundancy that
begins to condition the body
to be in the past.
So now the experience turns into
a mood-- one long, emotional
reaction for days.
And if we keep the
same refractory period
of that emotion continuing
on for weeks or months,
that's called a temperament.
So she has one long
emotional reaction
that's connected to this event.
And if you asked her why she was
suffering or why she was angry
or why she was
resentful, she would say,
I am this way because
of this experience
that happened to
me nine months ago.
Now, everybody in
her life, of course,
was reflecting back to
her her new personality
that was connected
to this experience.
And so she began
to subconsciously
and unconsciously
accept, believe,
and surrender to
the thoughts that
are equal to this
emotional state.
In a very short
amount of time, she
develops total
paralysis in her body.
She can't get out of bed.
>>REGINA: Whoa.
OK.
>>DISPENZA: And so they
take her to the doctor.
The doctor cannot find anything
physically wrong with her.
And so they name the condition
"neuritis," but you and I would
understand that she physically
manifested pain in her body,
right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DISPENZA: So now
she can't work.
She can't see clients.
She can't take care of her
children, and she has no money.
So now her stress levels
go up even higher.
And it's the hormones
of stress, long term,
that push the genetic
buttons that create disease.
>>REGINA: Sure.
>>DISPENZA: So as she's
thinking about her past,
she's beginning to-- her
thoughts are literally
making her more sick, OK?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>DISPENZA: After she
develops this neuritis
and she has no
job, and no money,
and she can't take
care of her kids,
and her husband's passed-- in
a very short amount of time
after that, two
months later, she
develops these very
large ulcerations
in all of her mucous
membranes in her body--
in her mouth, her esophagus, her
stomach, her vagina, her anus,
and her bladder.
>>REGINA: Oh, my God.
>>DISPENZA: Now she can't eat.
>>REGINA: How painful.
>>DISPENZA: She's
even in more pain.
She's manifesting more pain.
But this is how the body is
being signaled genetically.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DISPENZA: We're
turning on-- we're
signaling the wrong
genes in the wrong ways.
And it's a scientific fact
that the hormones of stress
down regulate genes that
create disease long term.
So by her living that
same stress response,
she's signaling the wrong
genes in the wrong ways,
and her body's
beginning to break down.
So in a very short amount
of time after this,
she now develops
esophageal cancer.
And now she's in trouble.
Now the stress from the cancer,
the stress from the disease,
the fact that she
can't eat, the fact
that she can't take
care of her children,
the fact she has no
money, she has no job,
is all adding to
her stress levels.
You get the idea.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DISPENZA: So she
came to a workshop
that we had in Holland about a
year and a half, two years ago.
And she came in on a walker.
And I remember,
because I remember
her sitting in the left
hand side of the audience.
And she began to embrace
some of the information
that we talk about in this
book and in our workshops.
And she realized
that she probably
was signaling the wrong
gene in the wrong way.
And it started to
make sense to her.
She started doing
her meditations,
but she was struggling
because she was so
anchored to her past.
She couldn't think
greater than how she felt,
but she kept going.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>DISPENZA: And she stepped
into the river of change.
And she became conscious of
all her unconscious thoughts,
her behaviors, and emotions.
And now she was serious
about making a change.
She came to an advanced--
progressive workshop there
we had in New York.
She flew from
Holland to New York.
And it was a more
advanced event.
And I pushed the group,
because they were ready to go.
And I always say, right on
the other side of your fear
is courage.
Right on the other side
of your pain is freedom.
Right on the other side of
your anger is compassion.
It's the same energy.
It's just trapped in the body.
So she had a breakthrough
in this event.
And out of nowhere,
she said-- she
was saying this on the
stage-- in the middle of one
meditation, she had
a vision that she
was standing in front of an
audience telling everybody
that she healed herself.
She didn't create the vision.
She had the vision.
So she had that
breakthrough at that event.
And she went home, and
for every single day,
she did her meditation.
She took the placebo.
In other words,
for antidepression,
you take the placebo for
six weeks or eight weeks
to remind yourself
of your future.
Well, she moved into a new
state of being every day.
Now here's the beauty.
She said to herself, I am not
getting up from my meditation
every day until I'm
in love with my life.
Now, think about this.
To the materialist--
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>DISPENZA: To the
materialist, there's
no reason to be in
love with your life.
In her case, she's got cancer.
She's got esophageal
ulcerations.
She's got ulcerations on
all her mucous membranes.
She can't eat.
She can't walk.
She's in pain.
She can't get out of bed.
She can't take care of her kids.
She has no money.
There's no reason to
be in love with life.
But she understood
that those emotions
kept her anchored to the past.
So every single day, she
overcame her emotional body
and she got up in
love with life.
And it was that emotional
quotient, every day,
that started to build that began
to knock on the genetic door.
Now as she began to turn
the battleship around,
and unmemorized
the emotions that
kept her anchored to the
past, it got easier every day.
Because the word meditation
means to become familiar with.
You become familiar
with the old self.
So no thoughts, no
behaviors, no emotions
cause you to go
unconscious again
because you're so
conscious of them.
And then you become
familiar with a new self--
new thoughts, new
behaviors, and new emotions.
And every day, she did it.
Now here's the cool part.
After a certain amount of
time, she started to get happy.
She started to feel whole.
She no longer was
thinking about her past.
And she stood on that stage
that day and she said,
I just came from the
doctor a week ago.
I have no evidence
of cancer in my body.
>>REGINA: And this was
in Barcelona a couple
weeks ago or so?
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>DISPENZA: This was
a month or so ago.
I have no ulcerations in
any of my mucus membranes.
I have no pain.
I don't need any assistance
in walking any longer.
And I have a new husband.
>>REGINA: [GASP] Wow.
>>DISPENZA: And I
said, let me ask
you a question in
front of this audience.
Were there days
that you didn't feel
like doing your meditation?
She said, oh, my God, in the
beginning, every single day.
I said, did you do it anyway?
She said, absolutely, and
I was so glad that I did.
Because every time I overcame
a small aspect of myself,
I got a piece of
myself back, and I
started to love myself more.
When she finally
reached the point
where she was so
happy with herself
she could no longer--
she didn't care
she had the disease any longer,
that's the moment it went away.
Why?
Because the disease existed
in the old personality.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DISPENZA: She was
a new personality.
She was somebody else.
The disease exists in--
>>REGINA: She'd crossed
the river of time, too.
>>DISPENZA: She was a new self.
>>REGINA: A new self.
>>DISPENZA: She'd crossed
that river of change
and she was literally
somebody else.
And the whole beauty
behind all of this
is that if you see someone
dance the salsa well,
you'll dance the salsa better.
If you see someone hit a tennis
ball like Serena Williams,
you'll hit a tennis ball
like Serena Williams--
you'll hit it better.
If you see someone lead
with compassion and courage
in their life, you will lead
in your life.
And if you see someone
stand on the stage
and tell a story of how
they overcame their disease,
you're more prone to accept,
believe, and surrender,
without any analysis, that
it's possible for you.
So she is the living
example of truth.
And she is a different
person today.
And if you ask her
about her disease
and you ask her about
her husband-- ex-husband
jumping off the roof
and committing suicide,
she'll tell you that that
was her greatest lesson.
Her disease was her
greatest teacher.
Now, when you
overcome that-- when
you overcome your past like
that-- when you overcome
an emotion that keeps you
connected to the past,
that's called wisdom, and
that's the name of the game.
If we don't overcome that
emotion, then we'll always say,
I am this way because of this
event, which really means,
I was altered 20 years ago or
10 years ago or five years ago,
and I froze, and I
haven't evolved since.
But when she overcame
that emotion,
the side effect of
that is called wisdom.
And the disease no longer
exists in that body.
It exists in the
old personality.
>>REGINA: That's one of the
most inspirational stories
I've ever heard.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah,
she's an amazing woman.
And I just saw her in
Holland a few weeks ago.
And she's beautiful and she's
radiant and she loves her life.
Oh, she said to me--
at the end of the talk
when she was on the stage in
Barcelona, she said, you know,
I'm so in love with my life.
And I said, well, you
created from the place
of being in love with your life.
Of course you're going
to love your life.
>>REGINA: I mean, that's kind
of, what else is there to say?
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But I just have a
couple more questions anyway.
>>DISPENZA: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: It's almost
like, I'm done.
That's beautiful.
Thank you for
sharing that story.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: But a couple
things you said there--
and you talk about
this in the book--
and this is the notion of the
persistence and the rehearsal
again and again-- reprogramming
this reality-- whatever
the reality is into
the desired outcome.
So the rehearsal
and the gratitude--
just speak for a
moment more about that.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah, I think that
you and I have been hypnotized
and conditioned
into believing we
need a reason to give thanks.
We wait for something
outside of us
to change how we
feel inside of us.
And the moment we feel
differently inside of us,
we acknowledge whatever
it was outside of us.
That's how gratitude works.
The event happens, and
you give gratitude.
But if you think about
the emotional signature
of gratitude, gratitude means
the event has already happened
or it's happening to you.
So when you begin to
marry a clear intention,
you rehearse what
your future is going
to be like-- you can change
the circuitry in your brain
to look like the event
has already occurred.
That's what neuroscience
says, that's
what mental rehearsal does.
So now your brain is no
longer a record of the past.
Now it's a map to the future.
And if you marry that
rehearsal of a clear intention
and you review your
behaviors and your choices
and you review those
experiences and you're
intent on that, but
then you marry it
with the elevated
emotion of gratitude,
your body, as the
unconscious mind,
believes that the event
has already occurred.
And you're signaling
new genes in new ways
because, to your body,
it already happened.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: So the materialists
will wait for their healing
to happen, and then
give gratitude.
We say the quantum mind already
experienced the healing.
So we don't get up
from our meditations
praying that our
prayers are answered.
We get up from our meditations
as if our prayers are already
answered.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: And
that absolute state
of being where mind
and body are like
that, if you practice
that every day,
it will begin to
become familiar to you.
You'll be able to turn it
on in a matter of seconds.
And so then when you have--
and we've seen this on so many
of our brain scans, and
all of our students--
>>REGINA: And you have
many of them in here.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: With the stories that
go along with the scans, yes.
>>DISPENZA: But one of
the cool things that
happens in our workshops is
we're capturing amplitudes
of energy in people's brains
that are 10 times, 20 times,
30 times normal, which means
the inner experience is greater
than any past experience.
And that's the moment--
the rewriting the program.
That's the field moving
through their body.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: That's
the field moving
through their nervous
system, and we're
capturing that in real time.
They can't make that happen.
You can't say to the person,
make your brain do that.
It's happening to them.
And when it happens to
them to such a degree,
the inner experience
becoming more
real than any past experience is
a moment they'll never forget.
And that's the moment that
circuits in their brain
are rewritten.
And that's the moment the
energy and the emotion
is greater than the
past experience.
And that's the moment the
body responds to a new mind.
>>REGINA: And some of
them are even ecstatic.
You're even mapping
ecstatic experiences
that have changed--
altered people's realities.
>>DISPENZA: Oh, most
of the time, they are.
Most of the time,
people are in bliss.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DISPENZA: I always say,
you can control that,
but why would you
want to? [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: Yeah, why
would you want to?
And one thing you've done in
this book that I really like
is you've actually written out
the script for the meditation
at the end-- that a person
can either go to the site,
buy the one that's
already recorded,
or even record it
in their own voice
and go through this
very deep process
that-- interestingly,
what really sets it aside
from other meditations is you're
looking at and putting them
in a feeling of the space.
>>DISPENZA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: You're taking
them out of the material
model into the space of
the field of intention--
the field of mind.
>>DISPENZA: Right.
Well, think about this.
The majority of the time,
where's our attention?
Mostly on objects and things--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DISPENZA: --people and places.
And so we're focusing
on the particle--
>>REGINA: Or pain or disease
or a broken foot, yeah.
>>DISPENZA: Right.
And the more you live by
the hormones of stress,
the more you're a
materialist-- the
more you focus on the
particle and less on the wave.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DISPENZA: So
we're asking people
to take their
attention off matter
and put it on energy
and information.
And when you do that-- we've
measured it over and over
again-- the brain
gets very coherent.
The brain gets very organized.
And when the brain's
coherent, you're coherent.
When the brain works
well, you work well.
>>REGINA: As I said, you've
outdone yourself on this one.
>>DISPENZA: Oh, good.
>>REGINA: Dr. Joe,
absolutely amazing book.
And we're going to
have second discussion.
>>DISPENZA: Cool.
>>REGINA: In our
next discussion,
we're going to dive into the
deep end of the quantum soup
pool.
If our bodies are
made out of 99.999--
you get it-- percent
of space, than what
penetrates that space?
As we've talked
about, information.
Intelligence guides
the direction
of our physical reality,
and it can be applied
not only to ourselves,
but others, through remote
healing and much more.
So join us for this
next conversation.
Until later, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]